Well, I suppose my advice would be pretty general, because this hypothetical kid could be anything, given those conditions:

1) Consider time your most precious resource
When you're young, you probably have a lot of time (and probably not as much money).  Nevertheless, time remains your most precious resource, and not (say) money or other physical things.  This is difficult to believe when you're younger, but money is easy to obtain.  Money can be borrowed, given, and stored.  None of these things can be done with time.  Time is expended at the same rate constantly for everyone; its rate of expenditure cannot be slowed or stopped and perhaps more importantly, it cannot be "banked" - i.e. stored for usage later.  This means that you should always be trying to make good use of your time, and when you have an excess of another resource (e.g. money), you should seek to trade it for time.  Additionally, the next fifteen years or so are uniquely productive years in your life - you will be at an age where you have achieved legal adulthood and a critical mass of education, while still retaining relatively high levels of energy and physical health, and likely few commitments.  This makes the time doubly important, and it is draining away constantly whether or not you are making good use of it, so be sure to do so!

2) Build relationships with people
Relationships with quality people are one of the most important things in life, but their value only becomes apparent over the long term.  This means you should begin building them now.  This doesn't mean to go and schmooze, but rather you should try to refine your own people skills and quality of character so that when you meet high-quality people (come up with your own personal definition of this, and don't be too narrow about it), you can seek to be a good person to them, and allow a high-quality mutual relationship to form.  This relationship will be different depending on who the person is, but the key idea is to make yourself someone that others will want a true and good human bond with; these enduring relationships will be the source of great wealth (literal and metaphorical) for the rest of your lives.

3) Don't work for a big organization
Whatever you do, don't work for a big organization, no matter how hard they recruit you or what rewards they offer (they will often have the resources to offer greater material rewards than a smaller organization).  If you're "smart and could do anything," the last thing you should do is waste away your most productive and creative years in a job where your talents and output will be vastly limited by the inherent structure of a large organization.  There is no security or benefit to working in a large corporation; they are filled with mediocre people who will merely frustrate and dull you, and your spirit and capabilities will pay the price for years to come.  You can work for a startup or start your own business or just travel the world doing nothing productive, but don't work for a big company.  

4) Beware of rules
There are plenty of rules in the world.  When encountering one, think first about who made it and why, as often a rule is created in order to benefit the person or parties who came up with it, not others like you.  Choose carefully which rules you follow, and consider the real, actual consequences of breaking or ignoring the rule.  If you desire to do something great or bold, keep in mind not who will give you permission, but who will stop you.  By this I don't mean that you should be a scofflaw, but you should make your own well-considered rules and adhere to them.  Love, life, honor, and freedom are good guidelines to life; rules are only temporary and imperfect constructs.

5) Don't take things so seriously
Talented young people are often quite stupid in this way.  Whatever dumb thing you are worried about, it is probably not that important.  Ask yourself if you will really care about it in ten years time, and focus your attention on the small number of things where the answer is truly yes.