Just before the year finishes, here are my favorite web tools in 2014. 
Evernote should certainly be the first on this list! I have been using it as my e-notebook for a long time. Also, the students in my 1:1 iPad class are using it as their electronic portfolios. They take their notes on the lessons, write their reflections, and keep their products online. It’s great that writing notes on their Evernote has turned into a habit for me and for them!

Plickers is a treasure! It’s so much fun and a very simple tool to get feedback or to collect real-time formative assessment data. The best part is that your students don’t need to have any device! Seeing the positive reaction of the students and the teachers has been amazing this year!

EdPuzzle is one of the most multi-tasker tools I have ever tried! It helps you to crop your own videos or other videos from different video sharing platforms. You can record your voice over a video, or you can add audio notes. If you like, you can add quizzes or questions to a video as well!

WeTransfer is not a teacher tool but I have used it a lot this year to share files online! You don’t need to sign up to send your large files. Simply upload it, write the e-mail and send it! It will also send you a notification when the receiver downloads the file!

Write About is the best digital storytelling so far this year! It has many picture prompts that you can assign your students to write a story about. You can even challenge your students to record their voices as they tell their stories.

Clyp.it is my new option for Vocaroo. Record your voice and share it with others or you can upload an audio and get a link to share it!

Knock on this door to explore where the door will take you! A great web tool for brainstorming, using adjectives, describing places, feelings!

I love Google apps and here is my favorite one this year! Story Builder just gives us another perspective to create our stories! Write your story and see how your text turns into an animation.

I have started using student selectors this year. Like that, I can give each my student a chance to speak all through the lesson! This one and that one are my favorites.

I know that Padlet is not a new tool in the market, but we have used it in so many ways in our lessons this year! Because it doesn’t ask you to sign up to use the wall! I think this makes this tool one of the bestiest on my list this year!

Here are mine, what about yours?

Image Source: ShutterStock


1. Infogram


Infogram -- useful for: great visuals

The easiest way to generate sharp, modern and responsive graphs, charts and infographics. The learning curve is minimal, with almost everything you're going to want presented in simple, user-friendly menus. It’s free to use, but a pro account allows you to hook up real-time data and share privately.

2. Up Hail


Up Hail -- useful for: avoiding that crazy Uber surge fee

Up Hail does for taxi services what so many websites have done for other travel costs -- compares them in real time to find the best deal. You can figure out whether Uber or Lyft is cheaper for that ride to the airport, if there are SUVs or vans available for a group, or if there’s any surge pricing that will leave you with rider’s regret in the morning.

3. Inbox


Inbox -- useful for: messy emailers

Google's Inbox isn’t the most innovative thing of 2014 (plenty of people have pointed out that it uses a lot of features developed by other sites), but Google does it as good as anyone. If you’re already a Gmail user and can snag an invite, this new version of the email inbox can help even the laziest emailer organize their digital correspondence quickly.

4. Overcast


Overcast -- useful for: podcast addicts

The latest and greatest of the podcast apps, Overcast combines nifty layout and better discovery capabilities with features that allow users to control the speed and volume of playbacks. A vast upgrade on Apple’s Podcast app, and a nice improvement on most others.

5. Nuzzel


Nuzzel -- useful for: knowing what people are talking about at your next dinner party

Nuzzel is that refreshingly simple idea that provides clear value. Link up your Facebook and Twitter accounts and it logs which links your friends are posting. The site will send you emails (if you choose) with a rundown of the most-posted stories. Never fear a dinner party again.

6. YouTube Music Key


YouTube Music Key -- useful for: easy music discovery

YouTube has long been a great platform for discovering new music and listening to rare and obscure recordings. Now that the company is branching out into the subscription service market, it has organized its deep libraries of music like never before. And since you’ve already probably enjoyed some music on YouTube, it has a personal mix ready to go from the jump. You don't even really need Music Key, as the "music" tab on YouTube's homepage is already showing improvements.

7. Medium


Medium -- useful for: just about anything having to do with the written word

The premiere writing platform on the Internet. Medium has matured nicely thanks to the embrace (sometimes paid for) of popular journalists, celebrities and even President Barack Obama.

8. Product Hunt


Product Hunt -- useful for: finding the newest tech hits

It can be hard to keep up with all the new startups, apps and ideas. Product Hunt helps by using the wisdom of the crowd. Using a Reddit-style upvote system, people can help push their favorite new products to the top of the site’s increasingly influential ranks.

9. Internet Arcade


The Internet Arcade -- useful for: retro time wasting

Take a trip down memory lane with this collection from the “bronze age” of video games at the Internet Arcade. There’s plenty of ridiculous titles like Special Forces Kung Fu Commando and Gravitar alongside classics such as Street Fighter 2” and Frogger.

10. Genius


Genius -- useful for: explaining the internets

The site formerly known as Rap Genius took some big steps forward in 2014, with the most notable being the introduction of a feature that allows you to upload and annotate any text, which can then be embedded on any site. The site is easy to use, unique and a pretty fun way to explain texts.

11. F.lux


F.lux -- useful for: evening productivity that wont hurt your eyes

It’s no secret that screens aren’t great for your eyes, particularly at night. If you spend all day and much of the night with a computer, F.lux is near essential. Its program adapts your screen’s color to the time of day, making it much easier on the eyes, particularly at night.