1. Instant screencasts: Just click record – Record movies of your desktop and send them straight to YouTube.
 2. A fun and easy way to share ideas on a webpage – For capturing full length screenshots of web pages.
 3. Goo. gl – Shorten long URLs and convert URLs into QR codes.
 4. Untiny – Find the original URLs that’s hiding behind a short URLs.
 5. World clock, world time zones – Know more than just the local time of a city
Parkerad hos Loopia Webbhotell– Copy-paste special characters that aren’t on your keyboard.
 7. Twitter Search, Monitoring, & Analytics –A better search engine for twitter.
 8. App Store –Search iOS apps without launching iTunes.
 9. Icon search engine and market place –The best place to find icons of all sizes.
 10. Office - Office.com –Download templates, clipart and images for your Office documents.
 11. Website Review - SEO Tool | WooRank.com –everything you wanted to know about a website.
 12. Free Online Virus, Malware and URL Scanner –Scan any suspicious file or email attachment for viruses.
 13. Computational Knowledge Engine– Gets answers directly without searching .
Page on Printwhatyoulike– Print web pages without the clutter.
 15. Wedia CrossMedia –Reformats news articles and blog content as a newspaper.
 16. Page on Isnsfw – When you wish to share a NSFW page but with a warning.
 17. The Leading Egg Timers Site on the Net – A simple online timer for your daily needs.
 18. The Coral Content Distribution Network – If a site is down due to heavy traffic, try accessing it through coral CDN.
 19. True Random Number Service – Pick random numbers, flip coins, and more.
 20. WOT (Web of Trust) –Check the trust level of any website .
 21. Page on Zoho –Preview PDFs and Presentations directly in the browser.
 22. TubeMogul | Home –Simultaneously upload videos to YouTube and other video sites.
 23. AOL On Homepage – The best place for searching web videos.
 24. scr.im " Share your email in a safe way. Get less spam. – Share your email address online without worrying about spam.
 25. spypig.com – Now get read receipts for your email.
 26. sizeasy.com –Visualize and compare the size of any product.
 27. What Font is | WhatFontis.com –quickly determine the font name from an image.
 28. Font Squirrel | Free Commercial Fonts –A good collection of fonts – free for personal and commercial use.
 29. Jeffrey Friedl's Web Sites – Find data hidden in your photographs .
 30. TinEye Reverse Image Search – This is like an online version of Google Googles.
 31. Simple Domain Name Registrar– Helps you search domains across allTLDs.
 32. The Fashion Tabloid - Covering All Fashion Online –Your favorite blogs delivered as PDFs.
 33. join. me – Share your screen with anyone over the web.
 34. Free Online OCR - convert scanned PDF and images to Word, JPEG to Word –Recognize text from scanned PDFs and images – see other OCR tools.
 35. Global Flight Tracker, Status Tracking and Airport Information –Track flight status at airports worldwide.
 36. WeTransfer –For sharing really big files online.
 37. Pastebin.com - #1 paste tool since 2002! – A temporary onlineclipboard for your text and code snippets.
Page on Polishmywriting –Check your writing for spelling or grammatical errors.
Page on Awesomehighlighter– Easily highlight the important parts of a web page.
 40. Page on Typewith –Work on the same document with multiple people.
IIS7 –Planning an event? Find a date that works for all.
 42. Time Zones– A less confusing view of the world time zones.
 43. Recover Your Lost Website– You’ll need this when your bookmarked web pages are deleted.
 44. Website Speed and Performance Optimization – The perfect tool for measuring your site performance online.
 45. Register | imo messenger – Chat with your buddies on Skype,Facebook, GoogleTalk, etc from one place.
Page on Google– Translate web pages,PDFs and Office documents.
 47. YouTube TV – Sit back and enjoy YouTube videos in full-screen mode.
 48. Easily Find Similar Websites –Discover new sites that are similar to what you like already.
 49. Wordle - Beautiful Word Clouds – Quicksummarize long pieces of text with tag clouds.
 50. brainstorm and mind map online – Create mind-maps, brainstorm ideas in the browser.
 51. Adobe Kuler –Get color ideas, also extract colors from photographs.
 52. Free, Fast and Simple Email Reminder– Setup quick reminders via email itself.
 53. Let me google that for you – When your friends are too lazy to use Google on their own.
 54. tempalias - Temporary Email Aliases –Generate temporary email aliases, better than disposable email.
 55. Free PDF Editor & Free PDF Form Filler –Lets you can quickly edit PDFs in the browser itself.
 56. Free Fax • Free Internet Faxing – Send an online fax for free– see more fax services.
 57. Feed My Inbox –Get RSS feeds as an email newsletter.
 58. Page on Isendr –Transfer files without uploading to a server.
 59. tinychat.com –Setup a private chatroom in micro-seconds.
 60. Send notes that will self-destruct after being read –Create text notes that will self-destruct after being read.
 61. FlightAware - Flight Tracker / Flight Status / Flight Tracking –Live flight tracking service for airports worldwide.
 62. UPS, FedEx, USPS, and DHL with RSS and Maps – Track the status of any shipment on Google Maps – alternative.
 63. ChipIn (permanently down now) – When you need to raise funds online for an event or a cause.
Page on Downforeveryoneorjustme – Is your favorites really offline?
 65. Example Domain – This website can be used as an example in documentation.
Page on Whoishostingthis –Find the web host of any website.
 67. Page on Google Found something on Google but can’t remember it now?
Page on Errorlevelanalysis– Find whether a photo is real or aphotoshopped one.
 69. Page on Google – Get word meanings, pronunciations and usage examples.
Urban Dictionary, January 19: bPhone –Find definitions of slangs and informal words.
 71. Airline Seat Maps, Flights shopping and Flight information- Best Airplane Seats –Consult this site before choosing a seat for your next flight.
 72. The Leading Source Of Free Stock Photos – Download stock images absolutely free.
Page on Download-Get all softwares.
 74. WOBZIP – Unzip your compressed files online.
 75. Vocaroo | Online voice recorder –Record your voice with a click.
 76. Draw On Maps and Make Them Easily.– Create custom Google Maps easily.
 77. BuzzFeed –Never miss another Internet meme or viral video.
 78. Alertful | Free Reminder Service –Quickly setup email reminders for important events.
Page on Google– Prevent your ISP and boss from reading your search queries.
 80. Spring.me –You can ask or answer personal questions here.
 81. Urban Legends Reference Pages – Find if that email offer you received is real or just another scam.
 82. TypingWeb.com - The Web's Most Popular Typing Tutor –Master touch-typing with these practice sessions.
 83. mailVU Video Email – Send video emails to anyone using your webcam.
 84. Ge.tt | Gett sharing – Quickly send a file to someone,they can even preview it before downloading.
 85. TimeRime.com - Homepage –Create timelines with audio, video and images.
 86. Make video slideshows with photos, music –Make a movie out of your images, audio and video clips.
 87. Page on Aviary –An online audio editor that lets you record and remix audio clip.
 88. Online Music Notation Software –Print music sheets, write your own music online (review).
Page on Disposablewebpage– Create a temporary web page that self-destruct.
 90. Name My Tune– When you need to find the name of a song.
 91. Home design and decorating ideas to get inspired and get expert tips –Design from scratch or re-model your home in3d.
 92. SnapAsk – Use email on your phone to find sports scores, read Wikipedia, etc.
 93. teuxdeux.com – A beautiful to-do app that resembles a paper diary.
 94. Livestream - Watch thousands of live events & live stream your events –Broadcast events live over the web, including your desktop screen.
 95. Search the web for pictures, photos & images –Automatically find perfectly-sized wallpapers for mobiles.
 96. bookmarking done right: historious, your personal search engine –Preserve complete web pages with all the formatting.
 97. Dabbleboard.com –Your virtual whiteboard.
 98. Sales Inquiry WhisperBot.com || DomainNameSales.com –Send an email without using your own account.
 99. Sumopaint - Get Creative –An excellent layer-based online image editor.
 100. Lovely Charts | Diagram software– Create flowcharts, network diagrams, Sitemaps, etc.
 101. Manage Social Networks With Email– Get your Facebook and Twitter streams in your Inbox.
 102.The Hype Machine -Web-based music discovery site based on the music posted to blogsThe Hype Machine
 103.SimpleWash -A site to help you clean up old content you may not  want to show on your social media profiles anymore (currently Facebook  only, Twitter is coming soon) SimpleWash™
Page on ListenToYouTube -Converts YouTube videos to mp3sYouTube to MP3 Converter - Fast, Free - YouTube to MP3 Converter
 105.PushBullet -Easily send notes, links, lists, files, etc. to your Android phoneSend files, links, and more to your phone and back, fast!
